We were spending the afternoon in the pool with my family.
The next day, I woke up and I was having trouble catching my breath, so we went to the
doctor.
A blood test revealed that I had a bacterial infection in my leg called Staphylococcus.
I ended up in the hospital for 55 days.
I had a colonoscopy, and a few days later, they told me I had colon cancer.
They ran some more tests and discovered it had also spread to my liver.
He was a very humble person, caring, yes.
He loved Jehovah very much.
He was a good companion and a great friend.
We were married for almost 25 years, honestly, I don't know why, but he decided to take
his own life.
I never thought that he would choose to do something like that.
I think a word that's even more terrifying than cancer is metastasis.
It was like being caught up in a whirlwind and then plummeting to the ground.
My life as I knew it had now completely changed.
In total, there were 10 operations.
The first four were the most difficult because there was a possibility that they would have
to amputate my leg.
Every morning, you wake up with an intense anxiety, like a weight on your chest and you
can't breathe.
At first, I thought that Jehovah was just letting all this happen and that he wasn't doing
anything.
If Jesus himself did not expect Jehovah to shield him from trials or to get him out
of them, then I had no right to think, why is this happening to me?
Actually, the correct thinking is the opposite.
Why shouldn't it also be me?
One day, the doctors came in with some papers saying that the judge had given them permission
to operate on me and give me a blood transfusion that very day.
Because I was still a minor at the time, I found that my opinion and my decisions were being
ignored.
So at that moment, I realized that all of this wasn't against me, but against Jehovah.
It became clear to me that everything was in his hands.
I see Jehovah's hands through my brothers and sisters who are always looking out for me.
We decided to speak openly about it with others, but especially with our close friends.
We wanted to tell them even before they asked.
One scripture that others often shared with me says that Jehovah is a protector of widows.
It was a constant reminder that Jehovah was going to take care of me and he did.
It was three months of chemotherapy and then the operation.
They told us the operation could last ten hours.
One thing I remember thinking was, well, when I open my eyes, I will either see the ceiling
of the operating room or I'll see the new world.
When our family faced economic hardships, my mom made fruit gems to sell.
So I said, well, I guess I need to do the same.
A sister who had a business offered to sell them for me.
This helped me so much because I'm not naturally gifted at doing sales.
While reviewing the legal order, it turned out that it contained an error.
My last name is Canal and they added a nest to it.
So they weren't able to use the document that ordered the transfusion that day.
With time, I began to recover and I started feeling reassured by the fact that I had not
been judging Jehovah by asking where he was.
Asking that question was a sign that I needed his help.
Whenever anything worries me, I tell myself, wait, Jehovah has always cared for you.
So he's not going to stop now.
I have full confidence that Jehovah will take care of me.
My physical health is now the best it can be.
In my spiritual condition with Jehovah, my friendship with him has been greatly strengthened.
We've definitely experienced more good things than bad things.
It's not that we will want to go through it all again.
Absolutely not.
But the reality is that in hindsight, with everything I learned about Jehovah, I don't
know that I would have learned these things, had I not gone through a situation like this.